That was nothing more than what we need to eat with
sourdough biscuits or sourdough bread. And so
often they say they won't rise. The main thing is
with the generation today, fast, hurry up, get on
the ground, get going. And you don't rush
sourdough bread. There's no rushing to it. And you
look at it, I put that up the second time and that's
something else. I work mine down. I put it up and
then I work it down and let it rise. And I didn't get
it worked down. And I said, it just will get done by
12 o'clock. Well, it's 11.56, so I missed it for a
minute. Oh, my gosh. But I want you to come over here
before the oven gets hot, and I'll show you why I
mean when I tell you that you can't brush it. Now,
here's one that's at the same time, and it's
sitting out here. And I put this in here for you.
I know you do. I know you're such a diva. That's
incredible. They're tripled inside. That's just
to show you, to show the average person the
difference. What it means to keep it secluded from
the air. To make it right. This thing doesn't own
anything. But I just put it in there to keep it
airtight, airtight. Away from you. Patience,
patience. Patience. And that's what old folks,
they'd cook on the fireplace. And they didn't cook
with a blaze. They'd cook with coals and ashes.
The modern girl today has got to have a flame. She's
got to see it rolling. And you burn up everything
you have. And I don't think they cook it very much
anymore. Really? I'll bet. Well, there isn't
anybody there that can cook. I don't have any green
myra, but I'll give it a blast. You'll let them come
in. OK. What do you think about the now, though?
Well. And the curtains are great. That's a
beautiful room. That is. That little diamond in
that couldn't make sense. And let me tell you, if I
had my pillows to go on that other bed, it matches up
too pretty well. It is beautiful. It's not so
pretty, but that was made in 1930.
Oh, listen, I have a question about, you know, the
quilts I photographed. You have all those in a
good, safe place, don't you? Oh, heavens,
somebody stole three of them, honey, before.
What? Yeah. Where? Three of those quilts have been
stolen long ago. Which ones? One was that pretty
one with the purple. You're kidding. No, I'm not.
Well, shoot, everybody in town knew it. My house
was robbed, honey. I was robbed of everything
nearly I had. They didn't take valuables like the
canister set and that sugar bowl. They took your
quilts? They took three quilts, honey, that I
wouldn't have parted with. Well, then I've got the
only photographs of those. That's right. But I'm
going to have those done in posters. You better do
something because I don't have them anymore.
Well, so much has happened to me this year that I
didn't realize you had lost anything. But we'll
just have to do some more. Oh, yeah, they came in.
Oh, I've got some. That had to be somebody you knew.
Oh, sure, it was somebody that knew that I had
these. Sure, it was somebody. But who? That's the
whole thing. Well, honey, the man that started
this house went down at the ranch. and stole a bunch
of things. Oh, Ava, but those were going to be
exhibited. That's what I wanted to do with them.
Okay, but there's nothing. And he was in need of
money, and I'm sure he's the one who stole them. But
I've got quilt tops. That's similar. Okay, okay.
So we can... Get along with that, I hope. Well,
sure. Okay. Because I'm going to work on trying to
get the... The Smithsonian wants the quilts
eventually, if you're willing to quilt them. And
either that or I have a big surprise for you, which I
really think is very important. They've just
appropriated the funding in Austin to build a
multi-million dollar museum complex for history
and art of the Southwest. It's going to be in
Austin, and my goal is to be ready for them. a little
okay so we've got all of your history can be a
participant in this um okay well ladybird i gave
lennon and ladybird a quilt when i married when
they married i would like to uh photograph that if i
could star quilt is it okay it's made of you know
back in 37 times were so hard and i just made it to
different pieces that I had not all the same kind
like I took the pleasure of pains of doing right
this and the other day when she was entertaining
the dignitaries from Washington this last week
out in the hangar she hung it up on the wall oh how
marvelous and told them where it came from
wonderful That's wonderful. Well, let me also ask
you about the school, okay? Yeah. If I send, you
know, the school will be in my name. Yeah. And it
will be a front for participating in quilting
organization. And as I say, there's no money
involved. It's a nonprofit organization, as you
know. We've talked about this. And there's
nothing to it. All you do is put $25 down, which I'm
going to put $25 down. And that's it. And the Hill
Country School of Folk Art is now in existence as
soon as I file the papers. Okay? Well, they can meet
in here. Certainly. In this room right here. Yes.
And I have a big, my grandmother's old kitchen
safe. Yeah. That I have made into a bookcase. Wow.
Where I can put everybody's files in there.
Wonderful. And put it against the wall in there and
that long thing is where I'm going to file. Quilt
pieces and quilts. Okay, well this is good. The
school, it's nothing to it. It's mine. I mean, you
know, it's there. It exists. Once the papers are
filed for $25, it's all it cost me. And then we're
organized and we can let nature take its course. We
can let appreciation for preserving the folk arts
take its course. Because, as I say, this whole
thing has been done as a folk art project. There's
no great wealthy person behind it. What's behind
it is... Guts. Guts. That's right. So, I'm going to
have to send you a... A determination.
Determination, that's right. I'm going to have to
get a post office box. Why don't you just use mine? I
don't get things at Gunt Mill. Okay. All right,
I'll do that. I'll do that. And later we could
change it. If we ever needed to change the address,
you know, we can have it amended and change the
address. So that's no problem. Okay, why don't I
just put your post office box down for the initial
beginning. And we'll get everything done. And
then it's chartered and it is in existence. And I
met with a girl, the quilting club in Austin. Yeah.
You know, those people will be interested in doing
this. Well, I'm not a good hand to teach quilting. I
do a lot of it. Yeah, but we can all teach each other
too. That's the main thing. Everybody will have to
do his own deal. Only thing is I can't stand them
going down this way and pulling the thing up and
doing this way. Oh, really? Now, if they can't get
that needle and get going like that. Oh, yeah.
That's what Mama taught me. Oh, I can do anything. I
can't stand that down, straight, up, down, up.
That's not sewing. You have to learn how to inch
that little needle through those stitches so that
you've got it even. Yes, ma'am. Yeah. Yes, ma'am. I
bet you Mama put a needle and thread in my hand when I
was three years old. She said, here. You do this
way. That's probably right. Yeah, she did. And I
was making my own doll clothes. I can't say they
look like much, but I was doing that by the time I was
gosh. So I know what you mean about sewing right. So
we've got that going. And then we'll get you an
exhibit. I've got my top. Only thing I have is tops.
Well, that's okay. We'll get those. We'll get the
tops. We'll get that exhibited. I mean, for his
quilting. One of them I haven't put together yet.
I'm going to put together. Well, I started one
myself. I want to get it ready for the fall. It's
finished, but I mean, I have to set it together. I
understand, yeah. And that's all. I pieced each
block as one along. Did you? Oh! And then I put it
together. My goodness. And when I go to put it
together, then what will make the lining hold
Where you put your strips together, you quilt
that. Yes. See, and that holds the lining
straight, you see, and holds everything down.
Wonderful. That's a different wrinkle to what
anyone else has ever tried to do. They have
different ways of putting them together. But I
know how they wrinkle, and you've got seams, and
you don't have any seams in your linings.
Underneath only the one middle seam where it's put
together. Well, I'll be. I'll be if I have to. It's a
lot easier. Well, I don't know if it's a lot easier.
But it makes a prettier finished product. Yes,
yes. And that's what we're looking for. That's
what you're right, that craftsmanship. That's
the thing that you have down that a lot of people
have. I know we stopped at a sale on the way up from,
we saw some quilts and I just stopped to look at
them. They were done on a machine. And you simply
cannot have the craftsmanship that goes into
quilting by... I don't think so. No, it's a body
touch art. Quilting should be in so many ways. You
saw the Irish
Path. No, what was it? Or the Dunkard's Path. It was
red set together with yellow. Yes. For a
king-sized bed. Right, for David. David, uh-huh.
I have that, and I have the pillow. Now I want to tell
you, I'll put that one up against Mr. Anybody's for
being perfect in squares. Oh, it is perfect. I
know. I graduated in, you know, that just
absolutely perfect. It was really good, but I
don't know what the rest of it will look like. Well,
I started one, too, like I say, so we'll see how it
goes. Oh, it smells great.
That's a
beautiful cow.
Look how fat. Yeah,
fat's not beautiful anymore, I guess.
It might be beautiful. Sure is comfortable,
though. Sure is comfortable. You can sit. You can
sit down. You can have a pretty good patty. Yeah.
Well, that food's going to be, bread's going to be
ready pretty soon, and you can have the.
Wonderful. Have a meal. Good. I'm going to have to
get busy going. Uh-huh. And sliced tomatoes. You
are, okay. And we'll talk about that. Yes.
So this is wonderful.
Well, all this good history is now ready to be put
down. I have to tell me another story. I love what
you're telling me about the Culter for Cattle
Company. Well, you can check on that at the
university, but I'm sure that it's there. Because
I had to write a paper back in the 60s. Uh-huh. And I
found it in the San Antonio Library. You did. And
that's where I got it. And I'm pretty sure that
Austin University has... Oh, I'm sure that, of
course, they have everything. They have
everything, and they'll probably have that. You
know, Austin, the flood really wiped everything
out. It really did mess things up. Didn't it? It was
amazing. I thought about you. And... Not because
it's me, but if old Linden was living, let me tell
you, Austin would have gotten some help. No, they
wouldn't.
They would have gotten a PDQ. Right. Yeah. Now I'm
afraid we lost our influence in Washington. Well,
I'm going to tell you right now, this fellow asked
me to describe Linden. in five sentences to a
person from outer space that had never seen a man
and never knew him, what could I tell, describe
him? How would I describe him?
How would you do it? And I said, sir, do you expect me
to make an atomic bomb within the next five
minutes?
I said he was a dynamic person. Energetic,
vivacious, and persuasive. Definitely
persuasive. And I want you to know he was a driver to
work for. He never quit. But he didn't have a sister
that built anything like him or a brother. He was
the only one in that family that had any drive.
That's an interesting thing that you have that
drive too. That's right. But look at my brother and
sister. Yes. Is it that there's only one out of the
litter? Out of the group. There's just a constant
hammer and push all the time. I'm that way. Push,
push, push. Keep going. You can. You will. You
must. Right. You cannot stop. You just can't stop.
You've got to keep on. Yes. The elevator to success
never runs. You have to take the stair a step at a
time and a day at a time. It's hard, but that's the
way it goes. And the only reason that Lennon made
the success and was the millionaire, he was at the
right place at the right time and knew the right
people. That helps. That's exactly it. That's all
of it. That's all of it, yeah. He got the breaks. It
wasn't that I didn't work just as hard. But those
things didn't cross my path. Mm-hmm. That
opportunity never crossed my path. And she did a
very remarkable thing with your own life, Eva,
which I respect very highly. Well. It held, in a
certain respect, I would think it was held to your
being a woman, and you were a mother, and you were
married, which in fact was a tie for you to
responsibility. It was a great responsibility.
And in my day, it was much more so than it is now.
Correct. And one of the greatest compliments that
I ever had paid me was paid to me by Lemon on
Christmas before he died. He came down and spent
about two hours talking. And he got up and he put his
arm around me. And of course I'm so short that I came
under the pit of his arm. And he says, you know,
said, you are a remarkable person. I said, well,
how do you mean that, Lennon? He says, just think of
the many children's lives that you have touched.
And what an impression that you have left on them to
do whatever they did do well. I said, yes, but you
had the leadership of the nation. You touched
everybody's life. He said, I may have touched
everybody's life, but said, you left an imprint
that can never be erased. I agree. Well, I taught
both of his daughters. And each time, I would say,
Linda, it was hard for her to learn to write and hold
her pencil properly. Because of poor muscle
coordination, I thought, and the way that she was
taught in the first grade. I had her in the fourth.
And I said, no, Linda, don't. Use that finger. This
index finger is the one that has the connection
directly to the brain. It gives you that muscular
movement. Not this one.
Put it down here with this. And rest it on this
finger. Make that one your wrist and fold it back
this way. And then go on. And he says, Linda holds
her pencil right today. Well, that's a little
thing. But as he said, I guess I've left my
impression on somebody, some trait. Oh, I know
that's true. Because education has been a great
thing to you. Well, when you come up not being able
to go to school, when you're Old enough, and you
have to wait until Margaret and Len and both get old
enough to take to school, then you're responsible
for them. And if they didn't want to do what you
wanted them to do, they'd double team on you and
work you over. And you'd go ahead and submit to it
and say, yeah, we'll do that. And that's the way.
And I'd finally get home with them in one piece.
Maybe their shirt tail, his shirt tail would be
out. Margaret's sash would be undone, her hair
ribbon off. But I'd get them home. Right. Where did
y'all go to school? First year was up at Stonewall.
And how old were you then? Little schoolhouse
where he signed the education bill. Right. And,
well... I'm sure I was seven years old. So you
started later. Mm-hmm. And how old were they when
they started? Huh. Lennon was four. Four.
Margaret was four. Mm-hmm. So they began. But
Lennon was always as large as I was. Uh-huh. Large.
And Margaret was, too. I was, I was just broad as I
was long, but I never was tall. Mm-hmm. Never was
tall. But you certainly did a lot with education in
Texas yourself. When did you decide to be a
teacher, Ava? All my life I wanted to be a teacher. I
first wanted to be a nurse, and I just couldn't
float that deal. And I wanted to be a teacher. The
first time I ever taught school, I stood state
examination and got my certificate. Because they
would allow you to do that. They would allow me to do
that back in the 30s. No, it was the 20s, by the way.
The first school I taught was 1926. Where was that?
Right here at Johnson City. In the Johnson City
School itself? In the Johnson City School. I
taught the 6th and 7th grade. What did you teach? I
taught all of it, two grades. I had all the
subjects, math and history and geography and
English and civics and physiology, as we called it
then, and spelling and writing and reading. And I
can tell you one thing. I drilled on mathematics,
reading, writing, and arithmetic. and the other
came secondary. With two classes, it was hard to
do. And you had 40 students in your room. It didn't
come easy.
I had Lennon's baby sister in the sixth grade,
Lucia. Wow. So you were how old teaching the sixth
grade then? I guess I was 18. About 18 years old.
About 18 years old. How long did you do that? Well, I
taught that year and I taught the next year. Let's
see. Corky was born in 29. I didn't teach 29. I
didn't teach 30. But I did teach in 32 and 33. Then
on.
Didn't know, and I'll take it back. I started to
work. I never did get for $70 a month. Most never did
get. I started out $40 a month.
Up here at Johnson City. And then I got a $70 a month
school up at Rocky Creek, which is out of town. And I
drove up there. And then I finished out In 33, I
finished out the school at Stonewall, up there,
the little junction school. And I drove up there. I
finished that one out for Stella Luxton. And Mr.
Klein, that has been working for them for 20 years,
was one of my students. Really? That's right, and
his wife was one of my students. And it's just, when
I go up there, I can't, I look at them, I was quite a
young person, still, and they were big boys going
to school. Great big boys. It's not too much
difference, I guess maybe eight or nine years in
our ages. But you were still their teacher. I was
still their teacher, and they respected me. They
were kind. Yeah. You went on then to get the
education? I didn't. Because I have talked to you
about this before. I decided that working, then I
went to work for the PEC. And I worked for them as
chief accounting clerk for five years. And we had
17 counties to bail out. And Ida Mae Prane was
cashier. And I was the bookkeeper. Mm-hmm. clerk,
and
we worked all the connects, disconnects. We took
care of all the customers' readings and posting
and everything, of all of the work, just she and I.
The Pernell's Electric Cooperative was new. That
we have right up here, was new then. And I started
out right then. And then in 48, I
decided that I was going back to college. And I went
in the summertime of 48 to check in to see how many
college credit hours that I had left when I went.
And at that time, it was called a summer normal, and
we had two-hour courses. And they changed it to
three-hour courses. Well, I started out with 12
flat hours. And I took courses that summer. And if I
could make a B average, I could take an extra
course. Well, I made my B average, I'll guarantee
you. And then that winter, I took correspondence
courses and went to school. And that was winter of
48 and the first of 49. And then I went back to summer
school, and I still had my B average. I took 15 hours
of summer school. Went back, and in 1950, I walked
down the aisle with my BA degree. Right. That's so
right. At San Marcos? At Trinity University. At
Trinity University. In the afternoons, I taught
first grade. And the bus came through here. My
students were all dismissed. 2 o'clock. And the
bus came through here at 2.30. I boarded that bus
and went into San Antonio and went to night school
at Trinity University every night.
And came back home. Now, this you don't do today.
And on Saturday, I took Saturday classes for
teachers. It's in Marcus. Mm-hmm. And I carried a
full load down there. And when I tell you a full
load, I mean a full college load. And on Saturday
classes, down here. That's how I got through in
1950. And you finished that teaching
certification? Yes, sir. In two years. That was
terrific. Well, you can bet on that. People don't
do that today. They don't burn the candle at both
ends. I could read on that bus just as fast as... I
could anywhere else. I had geared myself to study
on the bus and get my lessons and prepare myself and
go right on. And then I said, well, that's as far as
I'm going. And Olin said, no, Ava, you are not
stopping now. I said, but I'm tired. He says, while
you're in the mood of studying and you're Life is
geared to that. You're going after that master's.
I said, oh, and I just don't want to go back to school
anymore. And he just walked to the door, and he
says, you get your books and things ready, because
I want you to have a master's degree.
Well, I thought, well, if he is that persistent and
really wants me to, that's the least I can do. So I
worked in another year. And I taught school every
day. I finished my master's.
And that was in special? Well, I took my master's in
education,
but curricular guidance. in education and
planning and steering a group. And I have thought
so many times about what I have been through with
our national park up here with these people. I'm
head technician and have three people to
supervise. And I couldn't understand. And when I
was in San Antonio, I knew I was lead teacher for
social studies for the district. You know, plan
your curriculum for all the entire district.
Let's us all get together, and we'll have a certain
goal and a certain plan, and we'll work it all out
together. So if one child is transferred from one
school to another, he isn't lost. We'll all be.
more or less working together. And I counted up
those teachers, I had 65. But I wasn't qualified to
take care of three women here. Yeah, that's the
thing that people don't realize, that the
National Park Service in Johnson City itself did
more to the detriment of the local population and
less to truly giving Lyndon Johnson his rights as
an individual and president.